# Testing Ruby with RSpec: The Complete Guide

## What is RSpec?

1. RSpec is an open-source Ruby testing library first relased in 2005.
2. RSpec is the most popular Ruby Gem with over 300 million downloads.
3. The latest version, RSpec 3, was released in June 2014
4. RSpec is known as a DSL (a domain-specific language)
    1. Its constructs (i.e. its classes and methods) are designed for use in a specific domain (testing)

## Why test code?

1. Avoids regressions when new features are added.
2. Provides living documentation for the codebase.
3. Isolate specific problems or bugs.
4. Improve the quality of code, especially design.
5. Cut down developer time

## The RSpec Ecosystem

1. Rspec consist of 3 inependent Ruby Gems that are often paired together
    1. rspec-core is the base library that organizes and runs the tests.
    2. rspec-expectations is the matcher library that implements assertions.
    3. rspec-mocks is a library used to fake behaviour of classes and objects.
2. RSpec permits integration with other libraries for expectations and mocks
3. The rspec-rails Gem integrates RSpec with the Ruby on Rails web framework

## Project Structure

1. Most projects have a spec directory to house all RSpec test files
2. The nested directories inside spec mimic those of the lib folder (Ruby projects) or the app folder (Rails projects)
3. As Rspec file ends with a _spec.rb extension that matches the file it is testing
4. Example: A Knight class in knight.rb should have a knight_spec.rb file.



